Thro the course of accounting,
we will refer
to various tools.
We will look at various books,
various financial statements,
etc.
So what I want with this class
is that you acquire that introductory
view of all those tools and
how they relate to each
other, because I think that
later it will help you understand
the rest of the classes.
Let us start with the process.
Accountants record all movements
in the daily book.
As the name implies, this
happens daily.
This is the first place where information
and accounting seats
are collected.
The structure is very simple.
As you can see on the screen, they
are filling line to line.
The journal also follows a chronological
sequence.
What is really noticed in the
diary is the movement of each
of the accounting accounts.
At the end of each period, all
the movements of the diary are transferred
to the accounts.
The accounts have this structure.
The account is, we can
say, the smallest record
unit in accounting.
Or more individualized.
And in each account are recorded
the movements related to that particular
concept.
Banks, social capital, customers,
suppliers, debts.
There are indefinitely countless accounts.
And each accounting plan in each country
determines the accounts that
can be used.
The accounts have this structure that
you see on the screen, in the form of T.
Then we will see what he answers.
Here we can see for example this,
which is the bank account with
different notes.
with the final balance of the account.
The total accounts are
collected in another book
called the major book.
In this book we can see all the
accounts and the balances of each
of the accounts.
Well, if we really stayed here in
the diary and in the major, accounting
would not be providing us
with much information.
We could simply draw conclusions
from the daily movements that
have been generated and the balances
in each account.
But they would not be related to
each other.
That is why what is done
is to move all those balances
in an organized way to more structured
reports.
And these reports are what is
known as financial statements or
in some cases known as accounting
statements.
In some countries, the annual accounts
are also used.
Its function is to convey how the
company is from an economic or
financial or patrimonial point of view.
What changes have occurred
between two periods?
We could say that financial
statements are the summary
of all transactions that have
been made over a period of time.
Financial statements
are diverse.
But really a student or an MBA
at any business school
in the world has to know
and understand well
mainly three of them.
The balance sheet shows
the financial position
of a company at a given
time.
His assets, his debts and his assets
of everything.
The state of results, as its
name implies, indicates the outcome
of the exercise.
The difference between all income
and all expenses that have
occurred during the period.
And finally, the treasury
state informs us of the balance
and movements produced in the
treasury during that period.
As we will see later on, the three
financial statements are related
to each other.
Well, because we will make a look
at how all the tools relate
and how the process we have
seen is.
We start.
All movements are recorded in
the daily book.
From the daily book these notes are
transmitted, those movements to the
accounts.
We have accounts, we have
balance sheet accounts
and accounts of the state
of results.
And all that information is
contained, it is kept within the
major book that informs us of the
salaries and movements within
each of the accounts.
Finally, we do the balance
sheet of the two types of
accounts to the financial
statements, such as the balance
sheet and the results.
The state of treasury as we
will see is created from
the balance sheet and the
state of results.